[Music]
if you're trapped in an apocalypse where
no one can fall asleep
and in five days the entire population
will die from sleep deprivation
what do you do these insomniacs are
going to lose their mind so quickly that
you'll never want to stay up late again
i'm going to break down the mistakes
made of what you should do and how to
beat the sleepless apocalypse in a wake
this family is going to have the longest
day of their entire lives
matilda here is out on a drive with her
older brother and her army veteran mom
when the radio suddenly goes out
and the car loses all electric power her
mother swerves to avoid an uncoming car
and just when her family thinks they're
safe a truck crashes into them
setting them tumbling into a lake they
manage to escape their sinking vehicle
as the mother swims to the surface and
finds her so noah but that's when she
sees two cops giving cpr to her daughter
on shore
the girls resuscitated and the mother is
relieved but the police officer has bad
news
the power is out everywhere and no
vehicles are working
noticing the mother's wound the cops
suggest they go to the va hospital
nearby but none of them realize that
this power outage will stop them all
from sleeping and
kill every human on the planet the
family tries to get medical attention at
the hospital but the power is out and
the place is in chaos
suddenly the mother hears a woman
screaming for help and when she goes to
look she finds that every coma patient
in the hospital is awake
okay this would freak me out big time
when a room full of coma patients are
all waking up at the exact same time
after years of no response i'd be
secretly hoping that the dead are waking
up too
because if a zombie apocalypse is upon
us then i can finally use my samurai
sword the way god intended
the truth however is far more terrifying
what these people should be way more
concerned about is the power outage
because when everything goes out
instantly over a large area like this
you can be sure it's either from a very
powerful e1 electromagnetic pulse
or a geomagnetic disturbance from the
sun now in the hospital
this guy said he thought this was a
terrorist attack and noah here scoffed
at him but it's actually not a
ridiculous claim
if a country of nuclear weapons
detonated a nuclear bomb at a high
altitude over the country it would wipe
out all solid state electronics
any digital communication would be
impossible and it's not just your
smartphone that dies but satellites
computers and banking systems would all
be gone too
honestly it's an absolutely devastating
act of terrorism because without
electricity even the most powerful
country on earth would have no working
technology to respond to the terrorist
threat
a lot of military equipment is protected
against emps by built-in fail-safes but
with only seven
percent of u.s power generation
controlled by the government most of the
nation's power system is under private
ownership that view an emp event as
highly unlikely so there has been
virtually no preparation for this
scenario
the collapse of our power system could
require 10 years to fully recover and
would cost 2 trillion dollars to restore
if that doesn't sound like a disaster
waiting to happen then i don't know what
does
this family needs to be preparing for a
decade without power and if i were them
i would ditch the hospital and head to
the nearest grocery store to grab as
much food as possible before it's too
late
i would then try to find a car with no
electronics in it so we can travel
further to scout for resources
one huge problem is that we still
wouldn't be able to fill the tank at a
gas station because gas pumps are
electronically activated so we'll need
to siphon
as many of the abandoned cars as we can
find before others have the same idea
now there is one alternative theory here
that is equally terrifying
because this power outage could also be
caused by solar magnetic pulses from the
sun called geomagnetic disturbances
a coronal mass ejection from the sun
would have the same effect as a powerful
emp
it would fry all electronic devices
across the world
the scariest part about this is that it
already happened in 1859
it wasn't a big deal at the time because
back then they only had telegraph
systems but in 2012 a massive coronal
ejection missed the earth by nine days
ahead of our orbit and it would have
wiped out anything with a microchip
both of these scenarios are completely
possible and the only people who will be
prepared are the old order amish
the entire country will be begging these
cow milky mennonites that teach them
life skills on how to survive because
they've been living without technology
for centuries
and if i have to ask amish people for
advice on how to survive this is not the
apocalypse i want to be a part of
with no car the family walks to their
grandmother's house to spend the night
it gets dark and they all go to bed but
the mom is restless and no matter what
she does she can't fall asleep
upstairs her son is looking out the
window and notices several shooting
stars
but the mother realizes that these are
low orbit satellites and they're all
crashing to earth that morning she heads
into the sleep lab where she works but
is startled when a soldier barges in
with his gun raised
the mother explains that she's a veteran
and her boss dr murphy comes in to vouch
for her
though one tells her the government is
setting up a military hub to research
why nobody can fall asleep and
asks her to join them but the mother
turns the doctor down to stay with her
children
this research assistant tells her she's
making a huge mistake
and explains that people are suddenly
experiencing severe insomnia throughout
the entire world overnight and everyone
will die if a cure isn't found but
there's still hope
they've found one woman who can still
sleep and he believes they can discover
why
she tells him that her daughter was able
to sleep last night and that catches the
man's attention
he makes it clear that if her daughter
can sleep she's one of the only two
people on earth who can still do that
realizing how serious this is the mother
leaves the building and rushes back home
to find her daughter
okay this is a new terrifying reality
this research assistant just told us
that without sleep
everyone will die and he's actually
right because there's a limit to how
long we can stay awake before dying
now the longest documented case of
someone staying awake is 11 days but
diseases like fatal familial insomnia
which makes you unable to sleep are a
hundred percent fatal because without
sleep your organs shut down completely
this means matilda here will be one of
the only people living on the planet and
she has no skills whatsoever to survive
this changes everything because from
what the researchers said the symptoms
from sleep deprivation are appearing two
to three times faster than normal
that means 99 of humanity will die in
five days
instead of 12. now this mother has been
awake for 24 hours so she's already
quickly losing her critical thinking
ability
if the average human has an iq of 100
after 24 hours this woman's iq might
actually fall below her own daughter's
intelligence
she needs to use these valuable hours of
normal brain function to teach her
daughter everything she knows about how
to survive
she's been awake for 24 hours and in
four more days
she'll be dead now there was one
decision that they could have made
months ago that would have saved their
lives
bespoke post is a monthly membership
club delivering awesome boxes of top
shelf goods from under the radar brands
and when the apocalypse hits you're
going to wish you stocked up with
bespoke
post the trail kit they sent me comes
with a field box that's sturdy enough to
protect ammunition
tools and pretty much anything else with
a water resistant compression lid and a
beefy construction
as well as a gut hook knife a pocket saw
with nylon straps paracord bracelet with
10 feet of potentially life-saving cord
and importantly this book surviving the
great outdoors by brendan leonard
with just 24 hours to learn how to
survive this book
is going to be what saves your life
every month bespoke post sends you cool
new products based on your preferences
like this beautiful handmade damascus
steel knife and leather sheath from the
forge box
each box has at least 70 dollars in
retail value but costs only 45 dollars
so it's a great deal and if you don't
like the box they assign you you can
easily swap it for another box or skip a
month whenever you want
by the time an emp hits it's going to be
way too late for online shopping so you
know you better act fast
use my link in the description and
coupon code howtobe 20 to get 20
off your first monthly box today and
when everyone else is cut unprepared
you'll be ready
thank you to bespoke post for sponsoring
this video running inside the house the
mother discovers her daughter is missing
and noah here says she's at church with
her grandma
they need to find a working card to get
the girl to safety and the two are about
to leave the house when the lab
assistant suddenly barges in
he demands to know if her daughter is
able to sleep and her son reveals the
truth
saying that he woke the girl up this
morning the man insists they go to the
hub to research the girl but the mother
refuses and rushes her son outside
at the church the little girl wakes up
from her nap and the congregation
believes she's a sign from god
desperate for a cure to their insomnia
this one suggests they sacrifice the
girl in order to be healed and the
pastor is against the idea but when this
man volunteers to help kill her
the rest of the church realizes they're
all willing to do anything for a night
of sleep
that's when the mother walks in asking
for her daughter and the pastor tells
her the girl might be able to cure them
she tries to calm them down but the
congregation makes it clear they won't
let the girl leave
the lab assistant steps forward and
threatens to come back with the army if
they don't hand her over but that's when
all hell breaks loose
the cop suddenly shoots the man in the
head and everyone is stunned
the grandma runs with the girl to hide
and everyone chases her down to receive
their blessing
okay now that we know it takes just over
24 hours without sleep to turn a
god-loving congregation into westboro
baptist church i think i'll be skipping
youth camp for the foreseeable future
so far these people have shown both loss
of critical thinking
and paranoia from accelerated symptoms
of sleep deprivation
clearly we can't trust anyone and the
less sleep everyone gets the more
irrational they're going to become
that means calm negotiation and
level-headed reasoning will become
useless tools because people will be
making decisions based on their
emotional state
and right now their emotional state is
uncontrollable fear
this is incredibly dangerous but it's
also a blessing in disguise
because there's a great way to use their
insomnia in fear to our advantage
these believers have had so little sleep
and are so
desperate for answers that as long as we
tell them exactly what they want to hear
we can control the room if i were this
girl i would tell them i'm willing to
sacrifice myself just like jesus did
then i'd reach for the offering tray and
tell them they'll only receive divine
healing after they surrender their
hearts
guns and wallets to god if they already
believe that this girl is a sign then
they just might be willing to listen
once they're disarmed i'll tell them all
to bow their heads in prayer and when
their eyes are closed i'll quietly leave
the building
it sounds crazy but faith and survival
are extremely powerful motivators and
when you haven't slept in 26 hours
pretty much anything will sound like a
good idea to a room of desperate and
emotional people
downstairs they search one of the rooms
for the girl and the grandma won't tell
anyone where she is but she sees the
mother and signals at the daughter's
hiding place
that's when the cop pulls his gun on the
woman and demands to know where the girl
is
the mother heads upstairs and finds her
daughter hiding while the son
searches the lab assistant's dead body
for anything useful in his breast pocket
he finds a piece of paper with the
coordinates of the research hub on it
but when gunshots go off downstairs he
realizes he needs to leave
immediately leaving the church the
family runs through the forest
and stops at a repair shop the mother
tells them she's going to find a working
car and her son suggests they should
head to the research hub but she
disagrees
the scientists will turn her daughter
into a guinea pig but he points out
they'll both die from sleep deprivation
and matilda here will be alone
if they don't find help realizing he's
right the mother agrees
and goes off to search for a car okay
this was terrible logic
if i actually had any faith that
scientists could figure out a cure then
i would express ship this girl to the
research lab without even a fragile
sticker on the box
unfortunately cures and vaccines take
months or years to discover and in a
sleepless apocalypse time is something
they do not have on their side
in 48 hours even the smartest scientific
minds will be so
tired that they'll be useless to finding
a cure everyone in the world will be
dead
long before they could even get their
treatment it's a fool's air
and this mother is wasting valuable time
now if i'm this little girl i wouldn't
want to put my life in the hands of two
sleepless people who are too tired to
think clearly
if i knew they're all going to be dead
then we need to look at this situation
in a completely different way
right now we are humanity's only hope of
surviving an extinction event and that
means the priority is to keep ourselves
alive at
all costs if your family members are too
tired to make good decisions on your
behalf then they aren't reliable and we
need to ditch them
at this point it's very likely that this
girl's functional iq is higher than both
of them so it's time to take matters
into our own hands and run to the
nearest library
it's the perfect place to hide because
nobody will be there but more
importantly without phones or internet
it's the only source of information left
on earth
from there we can learn how to forage
and hunt cook and farm and
other important survival skills that we
can't reliably get from our family
she walks into an auto repair shop to
find a body on the floor and two thugs
are inspecting a car in the back but
when the door closes loudly behind her
the man comes to check it out
he approaches the guy on the floor who
whimpers in pain so the thug decides to
shut him up for good
the criminals go back to work on their
car and the mother grabs a handful of
keys hiding under the table
right before the thug approaches that's
when the men hear a car in the distance
and see a military jeep passing by with
medical supplies
deciding to go after it they get in
their car and leave the shop
with the men gone the mother takes one
of the working cars and picks up her
kids but once they realize what's
waiting for them at the hub
they'll wish they never left that night
as they're driving down the road the
mother spots a crashed car and goes to
check it out
she finds the bodies of the same men
from the garage and lucky for her
they still have a loaded gun she picks
it up and takes the man stolen police
badge but would never guess that this
badge will be even more important in
saving their lives than the gun
later the family stops on the side of
the road while her daughter sleeps and
the mother reveals to her son that she
used to torture people with sleep
deprivation in the military
she worked with a doctor who's running
the hump but is still willing to take
her daughter there if it means they can
find some help
okay she's been awake for 36 hours and
in three and a half more days
she'll be dead first of all the mother
should have known better than to
approach the roadside crash from earlier
because it's the perfect setup for an
ambush and as a soldier
it's something she should have an
instinct to look out for even without
sleeping for 36 hours
now it does bring up an important point
because if anyone has some crucial
information to prolong the effects of
sleep deprivation
it should be jill here the special force
is trained to function
under severe sleep deprivation and one
of the real life tactics they use to
stay alert after
days without sleep is to rub tabasco
sauce under their eyelids
this stimulates the body with pain and
it sounds extremely unpleasant but being
sharper than everyone else even for only
10 minutes can make the difference
between living and dying
they also chew on coffee powder to get
concentrated caffeine into their system
and if we already can't fall asleep then
it's all going to be about tricking your
brain to keep it working at a higher
level to make better decisions for the
sake of this girl's future
now this isn't her only advantage
because she also works at a sleep lab
and has
access and knowledge to all kinds of
medication that could both put people to
sleep or keep them awake for study if i
could keep myself and noah here
operating at a higher mental capacity
then we're going to be less likely to
make the kinds of terrible decisions
that get us killed
now if we have brain enhancing
medication we need to be very strategic
about when to use it because if we are
continuously medicated
our lymphatic system won't be able to
flush the toxins out from the brain
without sleep
that means chemicals we put into the
brain are going to be there to stay
a good marker for when we can get the
most effective use out of this
medication is to test your judgment with
memorization techniques
as the mother gets more exhausted she
tries to memorize numbers and based on
how many she can get right
it tells her how quickly her brain
function is deteriorating now the
accepted diagnostic test for global
memory impairment is to recall five
random words or numbers
so if we get to the point where we can't
remember more than five digits then that
means it's time to pay your doctor a
visit
the next day the family stops at a
library to find a map to figure out the
coordinates of the hub
inside the mother realizes that she's
going to die soon and her daughter will
need to know to survive without her
she tries to teach the girl how to shoot
but matilda here refuses
insisting she learns the woman takes the
gun and shoots into the bookshelves but
the girl runs back to the car
afraid that's when the mother turns
around and sees her son noah standing
inches away from the bullet holes
she thought he was back in the car and
in her state-deprived state she could
have killed them
their judgment is so far gone that with
every next decision they make
things are only going to get worse later
they decode the coordinates for the hub
and figure out it's 150 miles away but
she hears a noise outside and looks out
the window to find two released
prisoners fighting over a vending
machine
realizing her daughter's in the car
downstairs they run out of the library
to check on her but it's too late as the
car peels out of the driveway
they chase it down the street but run
into a crowd of escaped prisoners
this man claims he won't hurt the mother
if she lets him have her son but she
makes it clear that will never happen
and fires a warning shot the prisoners
step back but when they see she's out of
bullets they're ready to run in for the
kill
suddenly the car pulls up with their
daughter and the driver tells them to
get in
okay this mother should not have fired
her gun but it's important to get one
thing out of the way first
she's been awake for 48 hours which is
long enough to have symptoms of loss of
motor function and in three more days
she'll be dead
however she picked this gun up more than
12 hours ago and if you're lucky enough
to find a free gun lying in the road in
the middle of an apocalypse you better
believe
i'm gonna count how many bullets i have
now the mother had a great idea to teach
her daughter how to shoot but taking it
away and firing three bolts is not a
good use of your resources
so i would have made a rule for myself
much earlier on not to fire this thing
unless we were being attacked now we can
also reason that there are 50 prisoners
here and after being locked up without
anything to eat they're all going to be
hungrier for food than for 17 year old
boys
once we realize that sleep and hunger
are their primary motivators we can lie
and tell them that there's an abandoned
supermarket two miles down the road
that's still stocked and they can find
food there
i'd be willing to bet that 99 of the
convicts will head for the make-believe
supermarket and anyone that chose to
stay would be easier to shoot and kill
with the bullet she has remaining
holding the man at gunpoint the mother
finds out that dodge here escaped prison
after the guards opened the cells and
set them all free the boy notices
something ahead and the man hits the
brakes
sending the gun flying out of the
mother's hands the convict manages to
grab it but the woman lets him know it's
out of ammo
with no other options the man takes the
car keys and heads out to investigate
the airplane crash site
the mother teaches her daughter how to
siphon gas from a tractor while dodge
here asks about them and
noah explains she's training the girl to
survive after they all die
this catches the man off guard and
realizing the girl is special he decides
to join the group with no idea that this
road trip will turn into a murdering
spree
that night the daughter is learning how
to drive when they find a blockade in
the middle of the road
looking for a way around they spot
someone draining blood from two captured
victims and the mom realizes they're in
danger
the car is suddenly attacked by
insomniacs who try to drag them out of
the vehicle
they fight them off as the girl pushes
on the gas pedal and they manage to
escape with their lives
the group continues driving until they
see the lights of the research hub in
the distance and the mother goes to
scout it alone to make sure it's safe
sneaking onto the base she finds a
platoon of exhausted soldiers armed to
the teeth and overhears two of them
reciting the entrance code to the
building
barely able to memorize the four-digit
sequence she uses it to break into the
hub
okay the mother was struggling to
remember only four digits which means
her memory and concentration is at a new
all-time low and that's not just her we
have to worry about
at this point these soldiers have been
awake for at least 60 hours and that's
enough time to give them severe paranoia
and hallucinations
now when you add automatic rifles to the
equation it makes for an extremely
dangerous situation
regardless of their training after this
much time without sleep
nobody's judgment or self-control will
be reliable and all this is enough to
tell me that sneaking into the compound
is a very bad
idea the best thing this mom can do is
get her daughter as far away from these
soldiers as possible
in two days the people on the space will
all be paralyzed
and so close to death from sleep
deprivation that the daughter can get
whatever she needs to survive if she
just waits
the mother is so tunnel visioned right
now and isn't thinking straight about
the best solution for her daughter but
there's at least a better way to do it
distractions are going to be an
incredibly effective tactic against
these soldiers who don't have a strong
ability to focus
humans have been able to survive for
hundreds of thousands of years
because we have what's called a
hyperactive agency detection device in
our brains
it's something that senses potential
threats around us but it's so overactive
that we can easily be fooled by it
thinking someone is there this is going
to be easy to take advantage of
because these soldiers are experiencing
severe sleep deprivation and will be
more likely to assume
any sound or movement is a human threat
it might actually be possible to take
out all these soldiers by throwing rocks
and making distractions to lure them
away for long enough to walk right
through the front
door entering the compound she puts on a
lab coat to blend in and walks through
the hub to find the old woman who can
sleep
whispering the mother tells her that she
plans on breaking her out because her
daughter and this woman will be the only
two people alive
and the young girl will need help to
survive that's when the old woman
reveals
she was a terminal patient and won't
last long enough to help
suddenly dr murphy walks in and demands
to know why she's here
the mother claims she wants to help work
on the cure and the doctor is too tired
to suspect that she's lying but admits
there's no hope left for humanity
the hub has only managed to create a
cocktail that helps the brain function
better without sleep but at the cost of
permanent brain damage
there's no cure and in a few days
everyone will die from sleep deprivation
disappointed and exhausted the mother
leaves the research hub and breaks down
outside
suddenly two flares shoot into the air
and she sees the car racing towards the
hub
stopping in front of the guards the
convict and her son step out of the car
and surrender as the mother runs towards
them but she gets tackled to the ground
and held down at gunpoint that's when
her daughter comes out and reveals that
she can sleep
sacrificing herself for her family's
safety okay
this was a terrible idea right now this
girl is one of the only people on the
planet that can actually sleep
she's handing herself over to be poked
and prodded by doctors who are so tired
they can't even see straight
if i was this little girl i would have
taken the car and left my family because
as long as she's around
they're going to think they have hope
and that's dangerous if they all think
they can fix this
they're going to put this girl's life in
danger and as they get more and more
desperate for an answer to save
themselves
the more they're going to be willing to
sacrifice this girl's life to save
humanity
all she'll need to do is hide for two
days and everyone will be dead but now
that she's going to be taken by the hub
she'll lose that chance forever the next
morning the girl speaks with the doctor
and he tells her that they're going to
run some tests to find out if she's
special putting a gas mask over her
mouth the girl falls asleep in seconds
and they're amazed
it's a miracle and the research team is
ready to start experimenting
later the doctor enters a room where the
mother and son are being held prisoners
she's been awake for 72 hours which is
long enough to have symptoms of organ
failure and in two more days
she'll be dead trying to figure out what
makes the little girl special she asks
if the daughter had any surgeries but in
the mother's delirious state she can
barely focus
the doctor explains that the insomnia
was caused by a solar flare that
disrupted everyone's lymphatic system
which helps get rid of biological waste
in the brain
her daughter is immune and they're going
to do everything in their power to find
out why
suddenly the old woman stops breathing
and they all rush to revive her with
shock paddles the girl watches as the
woman passes away
and now she's the only one left who can
save humanity in the prison room the
mother is still handcuffed to a pipe and
begins to see her son trying to kill her
but figures out it's an hallucination
as one of the guards comes in and takes
noah here away for testing
the researchers need to know what makes
her daughter so unique but that's when
everything takes a dramatic turn for the
worse
outside a soldier freaks out and kicks a
pinecone away hallucinating that it's a
grenade
he starts firing wildly thinking they're
under attack and the other soldiers
start shooting killing anyone they think
is a threat
this guard shoves the older brother down
onto the floor and holds him at gunpoint
but the convict comes to his rescue he
tries to get the soldier to calm down
but he's tackled to the floor before he
can run away
a soldier comes into the room where the
mother is being held prisoner and asks
if she's sandra
the woman says yes thinking she might
help her escape but the guard starts
shooting wildly before putting herself
to sleep permanently
one of the bullets hit the pipe that the
mother was handcuffed to and now
she can break free in the operating room
the doctor gets injected with another
cocktail to help her stay focused for
their experiment but that's when the
mother walks in
the doctor takes the little girl hostage
but she suddenly collapses
in pain and the girl realizes that the
man intentionally left an air bubble in
the needle to save her life
the mother rescues her kid and walks
through the facility protecting the girl
from the rogue soldiers
they reach her son just in time to see
that he's hallucinating before he cuts a
live wire with a scalpel and
electrocutes himself
thinking quickly the daughter goes to
grab the shock paddle she saw in the
operating room and brings the device as
fast as she can
the girl gives it to her mom and runs
through the steps to use the machine but
they don't clear away from the body in
time and the kid
jolts back they're all shocked by the
electric current and the mother has
no idea if her children will survive by
the next morning
all the guards have killed each other
off and matilda here is alive but noah
hasn't moved at all
then the girl realizes he's actually
breathing and the boy wakes up
he tells his mom he was dreaming and she
breaks down in tears of joy with no one
left alive in the hub they start loading
up supplies into a jeep but the mother
is so exhausted she can barely function
she's been awake for 96 hours which is
long enough to show symptoms of
paralysis
and in one more day she'll be dead
inside the daughter finds a sheriff's
badge on the floor and she's suddenly
struck with a crazy idea
running outside she finds her brother
and tells him that he died from the
electrocution but the paddles brought
him back
she then asks if she died in the lake
before the cops saved her and noah
begins to understand that dying resets
the effects of the solar flare
allowing them to sleep looking to their
mother the children realize that if they
don't try to save her now
she'll be dead in less than a day they
carry their mom to a lake nearby and
drag her into the water where they begin
to drown her
holding the woman below the surface she
thrashes for a moment but is too tired
to fight them and
dies taking her to shore they pump her
chest and nothing is happening until
suddenly the woman gulps in a breath of
air and realize that a mother can never
get any sleep
but what do you think how would you be
awake let me know with a comment down
below
thank you so much for watching leave a
like and subscribe and check out the how
to be playlist for more videos like this
until next time have a damn good day